# CS300
ABCU Advising Program

The goal of this project was to take an unordered list of courses for a university and load them into a data structure that would facilitate searching efficiently. Each course consisted of a course number, course title, and list of prerequisite courses (if applicable). Three options for the data structure were a vector, hash table, and binary search tree. I opted for the binary search tree, since it offered efficiency on par with a hash table, but easier implementation. A structure was created that would hold all applicable information on each course and those nodes were loaded into the binary search tree, keyed on the course number since it would be unique to each course and follow a standard format.

One of the more difficult aspects of this project was to validate the input. Each prerequisite needed to be checked that it was also listed as a course in the input file. While this wasn’t particularly difficult to implement, doing so with a goal of efficiency was trickier than I initially anticipated. Initially I use a set of nested loops to iterate through the prerequisites and for each prerequisite, iterate through the courses until a match was or wasn’t found. This quick and dirty approach worked but was horribly inefficient. My end solution was to create two separate vectors: one of unique prerequisites and one of courses. The prerequisite vector was iterated through and the find function was used to identify the corresponding course in the courses vector. While it used more memory, creating two additional vectors and loading the algorithm header, it was significantly faster computationally.
